This is a gem version of http://github.com/avdgaag/acts_as_publishable ( a Rails plugin)
Thanks to Arjan van der Gaag for his original work in that plugin, which this gem is heavily based off.

His plugin is Copyright (c) 2007 Arjan van der Gaag, released under the MIT license

= ar_publish_control

http://github.com/ismasan/ar_publish_control

== DESCRIPTION:

Add start/end publishing dates to your ActiveRecord models.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

Adds published, unpublished and published_only(boolean) named_scopes to your models.

== SYNOPSIS:

    class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
      publish_control
    end
	
   # creating
   @post = Post.create(params[:post])
	
   @post.publish!
	
   # With start and end dates
   @post.update_attributes :publish_at => Time.now, :unpublish_at => 2.weeks.from_now
	
   # Or, in your views...
   <% form_for @post do |f| %>
     ...
     <p>
       <%= f.label :is_published, "Publish" %>
       <%= f.check_box :is_published %>
     </p>
     <p>
       <%= f.label :publish_at, "From" %>
       <%= f.date_select :publish_at %>
     </p>
     <p>
       <%= f.label :unpublish_at, "To" %>
       <%= f.date_select :unpublish_at %>
     </p>
     ...
   <% end %>
	
   # in your controllers
   def index
     @posts = Post.published
   end

   def show
     @post = Post.published.find(params[:id])
     @post.published? # => true
   end

   # You can nest scopes:
   @post = current_user.posts.published(params[:id])
    
   @posts = current_user.posts.published.paginate(:page => params[:page])

   # unpublished ones
   @posts = Post.unpublished

   # All posts if logged_in?, only published otherwise
   @posts = Post.published_only?( !logged_in? ).paginate(:page => params[:page])
    
   # Unpublish
   @post.unpublish!
   @post.unpublished? # => true
    
   # You can access the ones marked as "published" but with a publish date in the future
   @upcoming_post = Post.upcoming
   @upcoming_post.first.upcoming? # => true

   # You can fetch objects that have expired (ie. they have an unpublish_at date set in the past)
   @expired_posts = Post.expired
   @expired_posts.first.expired? # => true

   # Finally, if you want those objects where is_published == false, regardless of dates
   @drafts = Post.draft

All of these named_scopes can be chained with other finder conditions and paginated with will_paginate

== REQUIREMENTS:

ActiveRecord

== INSTALL:

If you haven't yet, add github.com to your gem sources (you only need to do that once):

    gem sources -a http://gems.github.com

Now you can install the normal way:

    sudo gem install ismasan-ar_publish_control

Add the necessary fields to you schema, in a migration:

   class AddPublishableToPosts < ActiveRecord::Migration
     def self.up
       add_column :posts, :is_published, :boolean, :default => true
       add_column :posts, :publish_at, :datetime
       add_column :posts, :unpublish_at, :datetime
       # update existing records if you have them
       Post.update_all "publish_at = created_at"
     end
     def self.down
       remove_column :posts, :is_published
       remove_column :posts, :publish_at
       remove_column :posts, :unpublish_at
     end
   end
	
   rake db:migrate

Then, in your Rails app's environment:

    config.gem 'ismasan-ar_publish_control',:lib => 'ar_publish_control',:source => "http://gems.github.com"

...Or in Merb or elsewhere

    require "ar_publish_control"

If you wan to unpack the gem to you app's "vendor" directory:

    rake gems:unpack

== TEST

Test are in the spec directory (rspec). To run them, first initialize the test sqlite database

    rake db:create

Now you can run the specs

    rake spec

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2008 Ismael Celis

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.